# Producers-Consumers Problem
## Problem Description

## Analysis
1. Analyze the relationship between producer-consumer problem and critical section problem. Relationship includes similarity and difference, more importantly, the hierachy.
To understand the relationship between these two problems we must first define them. The critical section problem describes a scenario where a group of concurrent process all share a number of variables. Each process has a segment of code, called the critical section, that modifies these variables. To solve the critical section problem, these processes need to cooperate so that only one process updates these variables at a time. The producer-consumer problem describes a scenario where two concurrent processes share some variable(s) (usually a buffer). The producing process (producer) modifies the variable in some way. The consuming process (consumer) consumes this change and does something with the change. An example would be a producer that places jobs into a buffer that the consumer then reads and executes. A problem arises when both the producer and consumer modify a "counter" variable at the same time. Depending on the scheduling of "counter--" and "counter++" for the consumer and producer respectively.
The first major note about these two problems is that there is a hierarchy between them. The critical section problem is a class of problems that the producer-consumer problem fits into. In the producer-consumer problem, the critical section is the portion of code that updates the shared variable, like "counter." Knowing this, we could say the producer-consumer problem is an instance of the critical section problem, so they are very similar. The differences between the problems arise due to the producer-consumer problem being more specific than the critical section problem. For example, the critical section problem does not necessarily require two distinct classes (producer and consumer) of processes. Also, the types and uses of shared variables in the producer-consumer problem is more specific than in the critical section problem.
2. Analyze the difference between the producers-consumers problem and the producer-consumer problem.
In the producer-consumer problem, there is generally only one critical section. This critical section is modifying some shared variable that keeps track of the changes. Using the shared buffer example, the critical section is modifying the "counter" variable after producing or consuming the item. This works because only one producer is placing items into the buffer and only one consumer is reading from the buffer. This means the variables "in"  and "out," which represent the indices for placing and retrieving items from the buffer, are not shared among many processes because there is only one of each type of process. When introducing multiple producers and consumers, placing items into and reading from the buffer now becomes a new critical section. The indices must be shared now and a race condition will occur if synchronization techniques are not used. 
